doc/build.md, before:

# NetMap Server VM Setup Instructions

This document contains step-by-step instructions for building a
VM that closely matches the NetMap production environment.


1. Install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). If you have
Linux, your package repositories have it.

2. Install sshfs from your Linux distribution's package repositories. If you
have OSX, install the two packages on the
[FUSE for OSX page](http://osxfuse.github.com/).

3. Download the
[Ubuntu 12.10 Server 64-bit ISO](http://releases.ubuntu.com/quantal/ubuntu-12.10-server-amd64.iso).

4. Set up a VirtualBox VM.
    * Name: NetmapServer
    * Type: Linux
    * Version: Ubuntu 64-bit
    * RAM: 1024Mb
    * Disk: VDI, dynamic, 16Gb

5. Change the settings (Machine > Settings in the VirtualBox menu)
    * `Audio` > uncheck `Enable Audio`
    * `Network` > `Adapter 1`
        * `Advanced` > `Adapter Type`: virtio-net
        * `Advanced` > `Port Forwarding`, add the following rule
            * Name: Rails
            * Protocol: TCP
            * Host IP: 0.0.0.0
            * Host Port: 9200
            * Guest IP: _(leave blank)_
            * Guest Port: 80
    * `Network` > `Adapter 2`
        * Check `Enable network adapter`
        * `Attached to` > `Host-only Adapter`
        * `Name` > `vboxnet0`
        * `Advanced` > `Adapter Type`: virtio-net
    * `Ports` > `USB` > uncheck `Enable USB 2.0 (EHCI) Controller`

6. Start VM and set up the server.
    * Select the Ubuntu ISO downloaded earlier.
    * Start a server installation, providing default answers, except:
        * Hostname: netmap
        * Full name: ubuntu
        * Username: ubuntu
        * Password: ubuntu
        * Confirm using a weak password
        * Encrypt home directory: no
        * Partitioning: Guided - use entire disk (no LVM or encryption)
        * Write changes to disk: Yes
        * Software to install: OpenSSH server

7. After the VM restarts, set up networking.
    * Log in using the VM console. (the username and password are ubuntu)
    * Open `/etc/network/interfaces` in a text editor e.g.,
        `sudo vim /etc/network/interfaces`
    * Create a duplicate of the "primary network interface" section
    * In the duplicate section, replace-all `eth0` with `eth1` and
      `primary` with `secondary`
    * Save the file.

8. Set up mDNS.

    * `sudo apt-get install -y avahi-daemon`

    * Open `/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf` in a text editor e.g.,

        ```bash
        sudo vim /etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf
        ```

    * Search for the following variables, and set their values as below.

        ```
        use-ipv4=yes
        use-ipv6=no
        allow-interfaces=eth1
        deny-interfaces=eth0
        publish-aaaa-on-ipv4=no
        ```

    * `sudo reboot`

    * Minimize the VM console

9. Check that networking works by SSH-ing into the server from your Terminal.

    ```bash
    ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    # The password is ubuntu
    ```

10. Set up the server.

    ```bash
    # ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    curl -fLsS https://github.com/netmap/netmap-server-vm/raw/master/script/setup.sh | sh
    ```

11. Shut down the VM if you want to back up the disk image.

    ```bash
    # ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    sudo poweroff
    ```

12. Follow the instructions in `vm-server-use.md` for development.

Commit message:

Document the files that configure which servers get installed on the VM.

doc/build.md, after:

# NetMap Server VM Setup Instructions

This document contains step-by-step instructions for building a
VM that closely matches the NetMap production environment.


1. Install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). If you have
Linux, your package repositories have it.

2. Install sshfs from your Linux distribution's package repositories. If you
have OSX, install the two packages on the
[FUSE for OSX page](http://osxfuse.github.com/).

3. Download the
[Ubuntu 12.10 Server 64-bit ISO](http://releases.ubuntu.com/quantal/ubuntu-12.10-server-amd64.iso).

4. Set up a VirtualBox VM.
    * Name: NetmapServer
    * Type: Linux
    * Version: Ubuntu 64-bit
    * RAM: 1024Mb
    * Disk: VDI, dynamic, 16Gb

5. Change the settings (Machine > Settings in the VirtualBox menu)
    * `Audio` > uncheck `Enable Audio`
    * `Network` > `Adapter 1`
        * `Advanced` > `Adapter Type`: virtio-net
        * `Advanced` > `Port Forwarding`, add the following rule
            * Name: Rails
            * Protocol: TCP
            * Host IP: 0.0.0.0
            * Host Port: 9200
            * Guest IP: _(leave blank)_
            * Guest Port: 80
    * `Network` > `Adapter 2`
        * Check `Enable network adapter`
        * `Attached to` > `Host-only Adapter`
        * `Name` > `vboxnet0`
        * `Advanced` > `Adapter Type`: virtio-net
    * `Ports` > `USB` > uncheck `Enable USB 2.0 (EHCI) Controller`

6. Start VM and set up the server.
    * Select the Ubuntu ISO downloaded earlier.
    * Start a server installation, providing default answers, except:
        * Hostname: netmap
        * Full name: ubuntu
        * Username: ubuntu
        * Password: ubuntu
        * Confirm using a weak password
        * Encrypt home directory: no
        * Partitioning: Guided - use entire disk (no LVM or encryption)
        * Write changes to disk: Yes
        * Software to install: OpenSSH server

7. After the VM restarts, set up networking.
    * Log in using the VM console. (the username and password are ubuntu)
    * Open `/etc/network/interfaces` in a text editor e.g.,
        `sudo vim /etc/network/interfaces`
    * Create a duplicate of the "primary network interface" section
    * In the duplicate section, replace-all `eth0` with `eth1` and
      `primary` with `secondary`
    * Save the file.

8. Set up mDNS.

    * `sudo apt-get install -y avahi-daemon`

    * Open `/etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf` in a text editor e.g.,

        ```bash
        sudo vim /etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf
        ```

    * Search for the following variables, and set their values as below.

        ```
        use-ipv4=yes
        use-ipv6=no
        allow-interfaces=eth1
        deny-interfaces=eth0
        publish-aaaa-on-ipv4=no
        ```

    * `sudo reboot`

    * Minimize the VM console

9. Check that networking works by SSH-ing into the server from your Terminal.

    ```bash
    ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    # The password is ubuntu
    ```

10. Configure the VM.

    ```bash
    # ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/netmap
    sudo touch /etc/netmap/game  # Set up the game server.
    sudo touch /etc/netmap/metrics  # Set up the metrics server.
    ```

11. Set up the server.

    ```bash
    # ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    curl -fLsS https://github.com/netmap/netmap-server-vm/raw/master/script/setup.sh | sh
    ```

12. Shut down the VM if you want to back up the disk image.

    ```bash
    # ssh ubuntu@netmap.local
    sudo poweroff
    ```

13. Follow the instructions in `vm-server-use.md` for development.
